clarify exports in studio ide (#9542)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/exports.md

- You have the <Constant name="semantic_layer" /> [configured](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl) in your dbt project.
- You have a <Constant name="dbt" /> environment with the [job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) enabled.
- You have a [saved query](/docs/build/saved-queries) and [export configured](/docs/build/saved-queries#configure-exports) in your dbt project. In your configuration, leverage [caching](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-cache) to cache common queries, speed up performance, and reduce compute costs.

> - You have the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) installed. The `dbt sl export` and `dbt sl export-all` commands aren't supported in <Constant name="studio_ide" />.

Author: ```suggestion
- You have the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) installed. 
  - In <Constant name="studio_ide" />, run `dbt build` instead of `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all.`
```

There are two ways to run an export:
  

> - [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) to test the output before production. In <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or any environment on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, run `dbt build` instead &mdash; enable the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) first. In the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) outside Fusion, run `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all`.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) to test the output before production. In <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or any environment on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, run `dbt build` instead &mdash; enable the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) first. In the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) outside <Constant name="fusion" />, run `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all`.
```

> - [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) to test the output before production. In <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or any environment on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, run `dbt build` instead &mdash; enable the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) first. In the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) outside <Constant name="fusion" />, run `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) to test the output before production. In <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or any environment on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, run `dbt build` instead &mdash; enable the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) first. In the [<Constant name="platform_cli" />](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) outside <Constant name="fusion" />, run `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all`.
```

There are two ways to run an export:
  
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) using the [<Constant name="dbt" /> CLI](/docs/platform/dbt-cli-installation) to test the output before production.

>   - If you're using the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, you can configure exports, but the `dbt sl export` and `dbt sl export-all` commands aren't supported. Use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
  - To work in <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled. To work in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI, use the `dbt sl export` or dbt sl export-all commands to run exports.
```

>   - To work in <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled. To work in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI, use the `dbt sl export` or dbt sl export-all commands to run exports.

Author: ```suggestion
  - To work in <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled. To work in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI, use the `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all` commands to run exports.
```

>   - To work in <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled. To work in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI, use the `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all` commands to run exports.

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

The Slack [thread](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C08PYQS8B7Z/p1782828094646019) talks about Fusion/core-v2, not Studio IDE specifically. Diego’s advises `dbt sl export` was intentionally left out of the Fusion binary — Studio IDE is one surface that runs Fusion, but so is the dbt CLI when the dev environment is on Fusion.

It might be worth reframing this bullet around the engine (Fusion vs non-Fusion), not the UI (Studio IDE vs CLI). For example: "use `dbt build` in Studio IDE or any environment on the dbt Fusion engine; use `dbt sl export` / `dbt sl export-all` only when the environment is not on Fusion."

Reviewer: Follow-up style nit maybe change "To work in…" to "In Studio IDE…" / "In the dbt CLI…"? to match our active-voice style.

- [Run exports in production](#exports-in-production) using the [<Constant name="dbt" /> job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) to write these queries within your data platform.

> ## Exports in development

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

Small structural note: this section lists `dbt sl export` and `dbt sl export-all` first, then says Studio IDE users should use `dbt build` instead. A reader scanning the bullets may try `dbt sl export` before they get to the caveat.

It might be worth leading with the exception (Studio IDE / Fusion → dbt build), or adding a one-line intro before these bullets. Same guidance also appears in Prerequisites and Run exports — if we reframe around Fusion, we could say it once here and keep the other spots shorter?

This section explains the different commands and options available to run exports in development.

> If your environment runs on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> (including <Constant name="studio_ide" />), use `dbt build` instead of the commands below &mdash; see [Run exports](#run-exports) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
If your environment runs on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> (including <Constant name="studio_ide" />), use `dbt build` instead of the following commands. Check out [Run exports](#run-exports) for details.
```

- Use the [`dbt sl export` command](#exports-for-single-saved-query) to test and generate exports in your development environment for a singular saved query. You can also use the `--select` flag to specify particular exports from a saved query.

- Use the [`dbt sl export-all` command](#exports-for-multiple-saved-queries) to run exports for multiple saved queries at once. This command provides a convenient way to manage and execute exports for several queries simultaneously, saving time and effort. 

### Exports for single saved query

> These commands apply when you're using the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI outside <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />. If your environment runs on Fusion, use `dbt build` instead &mdash; see [Run exports](#run-exports) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
These commands apply when you're using the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI outside <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />. If your environment runs on <Constant name="fusion" />, use `dbt build` instead. For more info, check out [Run exports](#run-exports).
```

> These commands apply when you're using the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI outside <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />. If your environment runs on <Constant name="fusion" />, use `dbt build` instead. For more info, check out [Run exports](#run-exports).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands apply when you're using the <Constant name="platform_cli" /> outside <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />. If your environment runs on <Constant name="fusion" />, use `dbt build` instead. For more info, check out [Run exports](#run-exports).
```

> Use the following command to run exports in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to run exports in the <Constant name="platform_cli" />:
```

- Use the [`dbt sl export-all` command](#exports-for-multiple-saved-queries) to run exports for multiple saved queries at once. This command provides a convenient way to manage and execute exports for several queries simultaneously, saving time and effort. 

> - If you're using the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, you can configure exports, but the `dbt sl export` and `dbt sl export-all` commands aren't supported. Use `dbt build` to run exports, and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled before running the command.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you're using the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled before running the command. Commands `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all` are supported in the <Constant name="dbt"> CLI only.

```

- Use the [`dbt sl export-all` command](#exports-for-multiple-saved-queries) to run exports for multiple saved queries at once. This command provides a convenient way to manage and execute exports for several queries simultaneously, saving time and effort. 

> - If you're using the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled before running the command. Commands `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all` are supported in the <Constant name="dbt"> CLI only.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you're using the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, use `dbt build` to run exports and make sure you have the [environment variable](#set-environment-variable) enabled before running the command. Commands `dbt sl export` or `dbt sl export-all` are supported in the <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI only.
```
